# Walletbeat Sync 2026-01-08

## Attendees

- polymutex \[organizer\]
- 0xMattmatt
- Hester
- Luci
- Sebastian (https://x.com/s3b0o0)
- Davide

## Agenda item #1: Work done since last meeting (2025-12-18, 3 weeks ago)

- polymutex:
  - Got GitHub to reindex our repo's PRs so that we no longer have ghost PRs
  - Self-hosted node attribute refactor → L1 provider independence
    - Wrote guide on how to test for this: https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/blob/beta/resources/docs/wallet-testing/l1-provider-independence/l1-provider-independence.md
    - Made a thread on X about this, Vitalik retweeted: https://x.com/walletbeat/status/2002818293741301777
    - Ambire going to fix their remaining issue! https://x.com/Ivshti/status/2003017731050971605
  - Spreadsheet for conference travel organization
    - ... but then fileverse broke it so created a doc instead...
    - but then that broke too so created another doc:
    - ... and the Fileverse "Send bug report" form was broken too.
    - Reported three Fileverse bugs to their X account.
  - Tried and partially rolled back use of Omnipin for website deployment.
  - Treasury transparency report: https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/blob/beta/governance/treasury/treasury-transparency.md
  - Reviews for Keycard hardware wallet.
  - Address resolution attribute: Relax requirement for chain-specific addressing for stage 1 purposes.
- 0xMattmatt:
  - Great progress on Transaction legibility attribute: Now with:
    - Message signing criteria
    - Wallet-specific rating details (in markdown)
    - More hardware and software wallets actually rated
  - Added "permissionless integration" to hardware wallet connectivity attribute.
  - Adding wallet test page.
    - Hester: MetaMask wallet test page: https://metamask.github.io/test-dapp/
  - Added wallet security news section to the site.
- ren2140:
  - Wrote questionnaire for wallet teams: https://docs.fileverse.io/0x3d5E5594e7A080591b63399D4a14dE5660634626/0#key=7xz0z-hUT42El3_cmAl_BMQ4zJgrpky_ZYTHAF8ixVFGVDP4v6rprqV4hyI1SJbA
- lucilajuliana:
  - First PR #423 fixing Windows-specific build issues.
  - Refer to artist for Walletbeat branding, promising discussions so far.
  - Next meeting tomorrow to commit treasury funds to this effort.
  - Working on social media strategy.

## Agenda item #2: Decisions to make

### Decision #1: 1TS security benchmark integration?

https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/discussions/407

Need more feedback on _integration_. The options:

**A**: Have 1TS benchmark as a separate benchmark.

- Display Walletbeat stage and 1TS benchmark ratings separately on the comparison table and per-wallet pages.

**B**: Fold in the 1TS security benchmark into walletbeat stage system, expand stage system to have 3 stages:

- New stage 0 = old stage 0
  - New stage 0.5 = old stage 0 + 1TS level 1
  - New stage 1 = old stage 1 + 1TS level 2
  - New stage 2 = old stage 2 + 1TS level 3

**C**: Flatten 1TS security benchmark to 2 levels, fold into existing stages:

- New stage 0 = old stage 0
  - New stage 1 = old stage 1 + 1TS level 1
  - New stage 2 = old stage 2 + 1TS level 2+3

**Decision**: Table for now; wait for Hester feedback.

### Decision #2: Site localization?

https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/issues/427

`brucexu.eth` / @brucexu_eth has offered to contribute a Chinese-localized version of the site. Problem: The site is not very localization-friendly at the moment. We can solve this, but is it worth it?

- **Pros**: Opens up site to a larger audience, makes Walletbeat eligible for language-specific ecosystem grants, e.g. https://www.gccofficial.org/
- **Cons**: Significant amount of infrastructure work upfront, especially if we only end up with only one non-English language; delays other launch priorities.

@minimalsm on GitHub (EF designer who has contributed to Walletbeat in the past) has offered to work on this last week, but no follow-up this week.

**Decision**: Not a launch priority, but worth doing in second half of year. Luci to look for grants for spanish translation. Should look out for being able to translate into more than just chinese to make sure this effort is worth it.

## Agenda item #3: This year's priorities

### Priority #1: LAUNCH

WE NEED TO LAUNCH ALREADY. Blockers:

- **Methodology**:
  - Software wallets:
    - Orderflow transparency [#194](https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/issues/194)
    - Duress resistance [#389](https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/issues/389)
    - Key material handling [#218](https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/issues/218)
    - Transaction legibility: Still need to fold in Transaction Simulation [#190](https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/issues/190)
  - Software wallet stages (see 1TS benchmark discussion above).
- **Site data**:
  - Need more wallet ratings.
    - polymutex: Working on making data collection easy/streamlined.
    - Mattmatt: Have been backfilling some wallet data (transaction legibility, social media links metadata)
    - ren2140: Wrote outreach questions to get wallets "in the door": https://docs.fileverse.io/0x3d5E5594e7A080591b63399D4a14dE5660634626/0#key=7xz0z-hUT42El3_cmAl_BMQ4zJgrpky_ZYTHAF8ixVFGVDP4v6rprqV4hyI1SJbA
- **UI/UX**:
  - Branding (in progress): Luci, Matt, Teresa, Pablo
  - Mobile UX, Teresa will be designing the mobile UI. Let’s make sure she doesn’t overlap with Darryl's work done.
  - Guides section on the site (needed to make the contributions guides that now exist visible to site visitors)
    - Let's do video version of them too. Task assigned to Lucila as part of content strategy.

### Priority #2: Spread awareness, become a credible organization

- **Need to do more progress on the site before we dedicate our attention to this.** Most of the work here should only happen **after** launch.
- Ultimate goal: Wallets implement features Walletbeat cares about.
  - Prerequisite: Need people (wallet developers and non-wallet-developers) to care about what Walletbeat says.
  - Need social media strategy. In progress.
  - Need conference attendance. See travel spreadsheet.
  - Need more solid branding. In progress.
  - Social media OpenGraph images for people to post to show wallets their own ratings in easy-to-share, easy-to-meme format.
- Grow beyond existing contributor set.
  - Need **5** people for the multisig. Getting close: 0xMattmatt, PatrickAlphaC, niard, polymutex. Who is up for fifth? Luci volunteers.
- Make our data portable, exportable, and usable by others
  - Machine-readable exports as JSON; [WalletRadar](https://walletradar.org/) has already started using Walletbeat data as input.

### Priority #3: Post-launch continuation of the site efforts

- Finish hardware wallet methodology
- Come up with embedded wallet methodology
- Rate both
- Ramp up social media strategy
- Localization

## Agenda item #4: Next two weeks' priorities

- polymutex:
  - Continue work on data collection tooling (in progress).
  - Continue project management work, PR reviews, branding discussions.
  - Find balance and routine that fits new schedule.
- 0xMattmatt:
  - Continue work on wallet test page.
  - Wallet security news: Link on per-wallet page (https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/issues/231)
  - Wallet data entry for OKX Wallet and Bitget.
  - Help lucilajuliana with development environment setup.
- ren2140:
  - ~Address feedback on questionnaire.~ DONE
  - Send it out questionnaire to any wallet teams who will respond.
  - Set up development environment to contribute response data back.
- lucilajuliana:
  - Continue branding effort. Do a follow-up with the designer.
  - Social media strategy almost finished with Pablo. Will share it in the next branding call.
  - Conference travel organization: will add every main event to our internal file.
