# Walletbeat Sync 2025-12-18

## Manual meeting notes

### Attendees

- polymutex \[organizer\]
- REN2140
- 0xMattmatt
- PatrickAlphaC

### Pre-read

1TS security benchmark: [https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/discussions/407](https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/discussions/407)

### Agenda

- Progress update vs roadmap doc: [https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/blob/beta/governance/roadmap/2025-roadmap.md](https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/blob/beta/governance/roadmap/2025-roadmap.md)
- Next month's priorities
  - polymutex:
    - Self-hosted node attribute refactor → L1 provider independence
    - Lower time commitment starting next year
  - 0xMattmatt:
    - Transaction legibility:
      - Make detailed output specific to the wallet [#403](https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/issues/403)
      - Add message signing tests (includes SIWE) [#404](https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/issues/404)
      - OKX and BitGet data #[add issue]
      - More hardware wallets per feedback from PatrickAlphaC
      - Add `requiresManufacturerConsent` [#405](https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/issues/405)
      - Fold in Transaction Simulation [#190](https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/issues/190)
      - Wallet test page for transaction legibility #[issue num]
      - User safety attribute refactor/deletion [#367](https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/issues/367)
- Attributes left to implement
  - Orderflow transparency [#194](https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/issues/194)
    - Davide (not here due to European timezone not aligning) volunteering to look at this
    - polymutex started, w/ feedback from soispoke: PR [#268](https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/issues/268)
  - Duress resistance [#389](https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/issues/389)
  - Key material handling [#218](https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/issues/218)
  - Hardware wallets!
    - Durability testing: In a freezer, dropped from a height, waterproof ratings
    - Need to figure out how to group hardware wallet models
      - One entry per wallet would be a lot of wallets
      - Grouping all hardware wallets from the same manufacturer would definitely be a no-go: example: Trezor model T doesn’t have a secure element.
  - Embedded wallets!
    - tantodefi.eth volunteers
    - WaaP also interested in contributing data/methodology
- UI/UX issues
  - darrylyeo:
    - Mobile UX
  - lucilajuliana:
    - `undefined` in tooltip issue
  - Still need help:
    - Branding/icon:
      - polymutex to reach out to suggested artists
    - Guides section on the site
    - Fixing lint issues
  - Infra issues
    - Creating Radicle mirror [#274](https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/issues/274)
    - Migrating to Omnipin [#346](https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/issues/346)
- 1TS security benchmark: https://github.com/walletbeat/walletbeat/discussions/407
  - Feedback?
  - How to integrate?
- Open topics
  - REN2140 to work on questionnaire for wallet teams
    - Only asking questions that aren’t too difficult for wallets to answer offhand; reach out to wallet teams.
    - Some teams happy. GridPlus requests a list of questions.
    - REN2140 Back from vacation this week.
  - GitHub PRs hidden because GitHub sucks :(
    - Filed support ticket
- Action items
  - Add Cyfrin as delegate for X account (cyfrin account directly)
  - Group hardware wallets by their chip generation / secure element hardware
