# Walletbeat Sync Meeting Summary - December 18, 2025

_This is an auto-generated meeting summary from the meeting transcript using Qwen3 and the summary prompt present in the repository. It may contain inaccuracies due to transcription errors and hallucinations._

## Attendees

- polymutex (organizer)
- ren2140
- 0xMattmatt
- PatrickAlphaC (Patrick)

## Main Segments of the Call

### 1. Retrospective of 2025 Roadmap Progress

**Topic**: Review of progress against the 2025 roadmap document.

**Purpose**: To assess how much of the planned work for 2025 has been completed, setting expectations for the future.

**Problem to solve**: Determine if the project is on track to meet its goals for the year.

**Solutions proposed**: Polymutex walked through the roadmap, comparing planned vs. completed items (75% completion rate).

**Debate/unresolved questions**: None specifically about the roadmap review.

**Actions**:

- Continue working on remaining attributes (75% completion rate)
- Focus on finishing the methodology and getting more wallets rated
- Create a multisig for governance (currently 1/4, need at least 5 contributors)
- Work on social media strategy (WalletBit X account)

### 2. Next Month Priorities

**Topic**: Short-term goals for the next month.

**Purpose**: To set clear expectations for what the team will focus on in the upcoming month.

**Problem to solve**: Determine the most important tasks to tackle in the short term.

**Solutions proposed**:

- Polymutex: Self-hosted node attribute refactor (L1 provider independence), contribution guides, 2026 roadmap
- 0xMattmatt:
  - Transaction legibility improvements (detailed output specific to wallet, message signing tests)
  - Add OKX and BitGet wallet data
  - Hardware wallet testing
  - `requiresManufacturerConsent` criteria (to address Ledger's restrictive approach)
  - Fold transaction simulation into transaction legibility
  - Wallet test page for transaction legibility
  - User safety attribute refactor/deletion

**Debate/unresolved questions**:

- Whether transaction simulation should be a requirement for passing or just an input (Patrick: "I don't like it as a requirement to get the passing functionality" but "I could see it as input")
- How to handle hardware wallet grouping (see section 3 below)

**Actions**:

- Create wallet test page for transaction legibility (issue #TODO)
- Refactor user safety attribute (issue #367)
- Add detailed output for transaction legibility (issue #403)
- Add message signing tests (issue #404)
- Work on `requiresManufacturerConsent` (issue #405)
- Group hardware wallets by chip generation or secure element

### 3. Hardware Wallet Model Grouping

**Topic**: How to handle hardware wallet models with different features.

**Purpose**: To determine the most logical way to group hardware wallets for rating purposes.

**Problem to solve**: Current system treats all hardware wallet models as the same, but different models have different features (e.g., Trezor Model T lacks a secure element).

**Solutions proposed**:

- Option 1: One entry per wallet model (too many entries)
- Option 2: Group by manufacturer (not viable - e.g., Trezor Model T vs. other Trezor models)
- Option 3: Group by chip generation (e.g., "Trezor's first open-source chip" vs. other models)
- Option 4: Group by secure element status (has secure element? open vs. closed source)

**Debate/unresolved questions**:

- Patrick: "It might be interesting, like, I mean, just kind of thinking out loud here... like the what appears for ledger like maybe we give it like a best case we we show like the attributes of like the best model so we we just do like a point system if you will at whatever has the most points that's like the model that kind of showed at the top"
- Patrick: "I think it would be good to have that data on the site anyways, like who is creating their secure element if they have one."

**Actions**:

- Move discussion to issue on figuring out hardware wallet model grouping
- Add secure element rating (open vs. closed source)

### 4. Transaction Legibility Improvements

**Topic**: Refining the transaction legibility attribute rating details.

**Purpose**: To make transaction legibility more specific and valuable for wallet developers.

**Problem to solve**: Current transaction legibility rating output is too generic, making it hard for wallet developers to know what they need to do to improve their wallets.

**Solutions proposed**:

- Create a detailed output specific to the wallet (instead of a generic "improve your wallet" message)
- Add message signing tests (including SIWE)
- Fold transaction simulation support into transaction legibility (but not as a requirement for passing)

**Debate/quotes**:

- Patrick: "I don't like transaction simulation as a requirement to get the passing functionality but I could see it as like input, you know, maybe that changes in a few years"
- 0xMattmatt: "For example, Metamask doesn't show call data anymore for known transactions, they just show a transaction simulation"

**Actions**:

- Create wallet test page for transaction legibility (0xMattmatt created a simple prototype)
- Add detailed output specific to wallet (issue #403)
- Add message signing tests (issue #404)
- Work on `requiresManufacturerConsent` criteria (issue #405)

### 5. Infrastructure Issues

**Topic**: Addressing GitHub issues and infrastructure improvements.

**Purpose**: To improve the development workflow and reduce dependency on GitHub.

**Problem to solve**: GitHub has flagged polymutex twice and is hiding PRs from the PR list, making development difficult.

**Solutions proposed**:

- Create a Radicle mirror of the repository (Radicle is a GitHub replacement)

**Debate/unresolved questions**:

- How to make the Radicle mirror work without disrupting contributions
- polymutex: "Requiring all contributors to download, set up, get familiar with, and use Radicle would be a very large hurdle for the project to grow its contributor base."

### 6. 1TS Security Benchmark

**Topic**: The 1TS security benchmark document.

**Purpose**: To align Walletbeat's security rating with the Ethereum Foundation's 1TS initiative.

**Problem to solve**: Walletbeat is funded by the EF's 1TS initiative, which requires a security benchmark.

**Solutions proposed**:

- Polymutex created a security benchmark document separate from Walletbeat's methodology
- Document has three security areas: "protect the user from shooting themselves in the foot," "runtime security," and "operational security"

**Debate/unresolved questions**:

- How much of the security benchmark should be integrated into Walletbeat's methodology
- polymutex: "I do not personally want WalletBeat to be security-oriented by default... I think wallets need to be pushed across all dimensions, and security is just one of them."

**Actions**:

- Patrick and 0xMattmatt to review the security benchmark document (GitHub discussion #407)

### 7. REN2140's Work on Wallet Team Outreach

**Topic**: REN2140's work on reaching out to wallet teams.

**Purpose**: To gather data from wallet teams to improve the Walletbeat methodology.

**Problem to solve**: Need to get more data from wallet teams to improve the rating system, with low barrier to entry initially.

**Solutions proposed**:

- Create a list of questions that are not too technically difficult for wallet teams to answer off the cuff
- Reach out to wallet teams (GridPlus already asked for a list of questions)

**Debate/unresolved questions**: None mentioned.

**Actions**:

- REN2140 to compile a list of questions for wallet teams
- Send the list to Polymutex for review then send to wallet teams

## High-Level Summary

This meeting was a retrospective and planning session for the Walletbeat project, held near the end of 2025. The team reviewed progress against the 2025 roadmap, achieving approximately 75% completion rate on planned work, with significant progress on core attributes like transaction legibility, bug bounty program, and private token transfers.

Key discussion points included:

1. **Transaction Legibility**: Significant work was done on transaction legibility, with plans to improve the detailed output specific to wallets, add message signing tests (including SIWE), and address the `requiresManufacturerConsent` issue (to address Ledger's restrictive approach). There was debate about whether transaction simulation should be a requirement or just an input to the rating.

2. **Hardware Wallets**: The team discussed how to handle hardware wallet models with different features (e.g., Trezor Model T lacks a secure element). The consensus was to group by chip generation or secure element status rather than by manufacturer.

3. **Infrastructure**: GitHub's repeated account bans and hidden PRs were a major issue. The team decided to create a Radicle mirror of the repository.

4. **Security Benchmark**: The team reviewed the 1TS security benchmark document, with the goal of aligning it with Walletbeat's methodology without making the project security-focused by default.

5. **Next Steps**: The team has clear action items for the next month, including:
   - Creating a wallet test page for transaction legibility
   - Refactoring the user safety attribute
   - Grouping hardware wallets by secure element status
   - Improving mobile UX
   - Completing the questionnaire for wallet teams

The meeting concluded with plans for a more regular cadence of meetings at different times to accommodate global contributors. The team agreed to rotate meeting times to better serve the global community (Asia/Europe/Americas). Patrick mentioned he plans to create a "very opinionated tier list of hardware wallets" before the year ends.
