# Walletbeat Sync Meeting Summary - February 4, 2026

## Attendees

- polymutex
- Matt (0xMattmatt)
- Nico
- Luci (lucilajuliana)

## Main Segments of the Call

### 1. Bot Identification and Removal

**Topic**: Unauthorized participant "Fireflies.ai note taker Tanya" joining the meeting  
**Purpose**: Identify and remove bot that automatically joins Jitsi links  
**Problem**: A bot named "Fireflies.ai note taker Tanya" joined the meeting and was not on the invite list  
**Solutions**: Team quickly identified it as a bot that automatically joins Jitsi links based on calendar events, and kicked it out after 10 seconds  
**Debate**: Minimal - all agreed it was a bot  
**Follow-up**: No action needed beyond removing the bot

### 2. Windows Development Environment Issues

**Topic**: Technical challenges with Windows development environment  
**Purpose**: Address Windows-specific issues affecting project development  
**Problem**: CRLF character issues causing lint warnings and pnpm dev failing to load on Windows  
**Solutions**: Matt recommended using Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) for Windows development, confirming it's the recommended approach  
**Debate**: None - consensus on WSL as solution  
**Follow-up**: Matt will help Luci with development environment setup

### 3. January Ecosystem Update

**Topic**: Monthly progress report for January 2026  
**Purpose**: Bring Nico up to speed on project progress  
**Problem**: Nico and needs context on recent developments  
**Solutions**: Detailed walkthrough of January accomplishments:

- Custom component UI guide by PolyMutex
- Message signing feature implementation
- Transaction legibility attribute refactor (grouping transaction display, sign-in with Ethereum, typed signatures, etc.)
- New contributor added multi-website news feature
- Mobile layout improvements by Daryl
- Zeus wallet added by Zeus team member
- Ambire wallet fully rated
- Elytro, Bitget, and OKX wallet updates
- Behind-the-scenes work on methodology refinements (e.g., order flow transparency, stage system improvements)  
  **Debate**: None - information sharing only  
  **Follow-up**: Nico now has context on project progress; team will continue focusing on rating wallets and improving contributor experience

### 4. Frame Account Abstraction (EIP-8141) Discussion

**Topic**: Frame account abstraction proposal (EIP-8141)  
**Purpose**: Discuss implications for Walletbeat's stage system  
**Problem**: EIP-8141 is published but still in draft stage with no official ACD approval  
**Solutions**: Team discussed whether to include Frame AA in stage system requirements before finalization

- "Stage two wallet should propose full native AA service"
- "Align attributes in that direction regardless of whether implementation follows EIP-8141 or not"  
  **Debate**: Whether to make Frame AA a stage one or stage two requirement  
  **Follow-up**: Continue monitoring EIP-8141 development; no immediate changes to stage system

### 5. Branding and Marketing Progress

**Topic**: Current branding efforts  
**Purpose**: Share visual identity progress and get feedback  
**Problem**: Need to establish consistent brand identity for Walletbeat  
**Solutions**:

- Working with Teresa (Web3 Privacy and DarkFi artist) on logo, colors, typography
- Focusing on cypherpunk values and "who watches the wallets" slogan
- Dark theme as main theme with specific iconography  
  **Debate**: None - just sharing progress  
  **Follow-up**: Continue weekly branding meetings; Teresa will refine designs

### 6. Ambire Wallet Endorsement

**Topic**: Ambire wallet's public endorsement of Walletbeat  
**Purpose**: Share validation from wallet teams  
**Problem**: Need wallet team buy-in for credibility  
**Solutions**: Ambire published "Mission: turn Ambire fully green on wallet beat" statement  
**Debate**: Whether to get at least two wallet endorsements to create competition dynamic  
**Follow-up**: Focus on securing second wallet endorsement (Elytro and Safe were identified as candidates)

### 7. Outreach Strategy

**Topic**: Wallet team outreach efforts  
**Purpose**: Discuss how to get wallet teams to provide data  
**Problem**: Wallets not responding to questionnaires  
**Solutions**:

- Ren has sent questionnaires to wallet teams
- GridPlus responded with data (currently "stuck internally, waiting for approval")
- Team considering sharing questionnaire with warm intros if available  
  **Debate**: None  
  **Follow-up**: Continue outreach; Ren to share Gridplus response next week

### 8. Social Media Strategy

**Topic**: Social media content plan  
**Purpose**: Share social media strategy for building awareness  
**Problem**: Need to build awareness and engagement for Walletbeat  
**Solutions**: Four main content pillars:

1. Credibility (establishing Walletbeat as authoritative source)
2. Ecosystem education (explaining Walletbeat's framework)
3. Community cultivation (building community around "who watches the wallets" slogan)
4. Wallet rating comparisons  
   **Debate**: None - just sharing plan  
   **Follow-up**: Luci and Pablo will create content calendar for February and March; social media threads will be reviewed before publishing

### 9. Live Stream Strategy

**Topic**: Potential live streams  
**Purpose**: Discuss credibility-building opportunities  
**Problem**: Need to build credibility and awareness  
**Solutions**:

- Focus on organic growth with smaller wallets before approaching big ones
- Larger wallets have little incentive to participate in Walletbeat ratings due to their market dominance  
  **Follow-up**: No immediate plans for live streams; focus on getting 2-4 smaller wallets on board first

### 10. Pre-Launch Issue Review

**Topic**: Reviewing GitHub pre-launch issues  
**Purpose**: Trim scope to focus on essential items for launch  
**Problem**: 29 issues total, potential scope creep for launch  
**Solutions**: Team went through all issues and trimmed down to 17 launch-blocking issues:

- Cut: Coinbase wallet (no longer exists), software wallet consolidation, hardware wallets, Phantom wallet
- Kept: Transaction simulation, private transfers, order flow transparency, security history, etc.
- Critical: Documentation guides for contributors, test page improvements  
  **Debate**: Whether to keep certain issues (e.g., software wallet integration for transaction eligibility on hardware wallets was unclear)  
  **Follow-up**: Focus on the 17 remaining issues for launch; Matt will work on documentation guides

### 11. Contribution Guide Development

**Topic**: Making contributions easier for non-technical people  
**Purpose**: Address technical barriers to contribution  
**Problem**: Most tasks are technical and hard for non-technical contributors  
**Solutions**:

- Matt developing wallet test page that connects to real wallets and runs automated tests
- Adding instructions to convert test results into Walletbeat data
- Creating documentation for non-technical contributors to rate wallets  
  **Debate**: Whether non-technical people can contribute to wallet ratings  
  **Follow-up**: Matt will finalize test page and documentation guide; Luci will review documentation to see if she can contribute

### 12. Bounties and Payment for Contributions

**Topic**: Whether to pay for wallet ratings  
**Purpose**: Discuss funding model for contributions  
**Problem**: Need more contributors but don't want to create perverse incentives  
**Solutions**:

- If we manage to get same work from wallet teams themselves, we get higher quality data without paying for it
- We should avoid perverse incentives from raising money from wallet teams
- Discussion of "world cup" style contest for crypto cards in Argentina that drove engagement  
  **Debate**: Whether to implement payment for contributions or leverage competition between wallets  
  **Follow-up**: Wait until contribution guides are ready before considering bounties; focus on leveraging competition between wallets

### 13. Next Steps and Assignments

**Topic**: Task assignments for upcoming weeks  
**Purpose**: Clarify responsibilities for team members  
**Problem**: Need to move forward with specific tasks  
**Solutions**:

- polymutex: Demo wallet data collection CLI, write guide, close 1TS security benchmark discussion, submit EthCC talk proposal
- Matt: Finalize January ecosystem update, write wallet testing contract, finish test page, documentation guide, Windows development environment
- Ren: Set up development environment, contribute data back
- Luci and Pablo: Content calendar for February/March, social media strategy execution, talk proposals  
  **Debate**: None - clear task assignments  
  **Follow-up**: Team will implement assigned tasks; next meeting scheduled in three weeks

## High-Level Summary

This meeting served as a comprehensive update for Nico on Walletbeat's progress and strategic direction. The team spent significant time reviewing January 2026 accomplishments, including transaction legibility attribute refactor, Ambire wallet fully rated, and mobile layout improvements. Key strategic discussions focused on:

1. **Scope management**: Team systematically reviewed 29 pre-launch issues and trimmed them down to 17 launch-blocking issues to avoid scope creep. Critical items include improving documentation for contributors and completing the wallet test page.

2. **Wallet competition strategy**: The team debated how to create incentives for wallet teams to participate in Walletbeat ratings. They discussed leveraging competition between wallets (like the Argentina crypto card "world cup" example) rather than paying bounties, which could create perverse incentives.

3. **Technical challenges**: Windows development environment issues were addressed by recommending WSL, and Matt is developing a wallet test page that will allow non-technical contributors to participate in wallet ratings.

4. **Brand and marketing**: The team shared branding progress with Teresa (Web3 Privacy/DarkFi artist) and outlined a four-pillar social media strategy focused on credibility, ecosystem education, community cultivation, and the "who watches the wallets" slogan.

The team agreed to focus on organic growth with smaller wallets first before approaching larger wallets, and to wait until contribution guides are ready before considering paid bounties. All team members received clear task assignments for the next few weeks, with next meeting scheduled in three weeks.
